https://shrek.fandom.com/wiki/Shrek_(film)/Transcript

(Later that night Shrek and Donkey are sitting around a campfire. They gaze up into the sky as Shrek points out certain star constellations to Donkey)

Shrek: And, uh, that one, that's Throwback, the only ogre to ever spit over three wheat fields.

Donkey: Right. Yeah. Hey, can you tell my future from these stars?

Shrek: The stars don't tell the future, Donkey. They tell stories. Look, there's Bloodnut the Flatulent. You can guess what he's famous for. (chuckles)

Donkey: Alright now I know you're making this up.

Shrek: No, look.

(Shrek traces the constellation with his finger)

Shrek: There he is, and there's the group of hunters running away from his stench.

Donkey: Man, that ain't nothing but a bunch of little dots.

Shrek: You know, Donkey, sometimes things are more than they appear. Hmm?

(Shrek glances over to see if Donkey understands him, but is met with a blank look)

Shrek: Forget it.

Donkey: Hey, Shrek, what we gonna do when we get our swamp anyway?

Shrek: Our swamp?

Donkey: You know, when we're through rescuing the princess and all that stuff.

Shrek: We? Donkey, there's no we. There's no our. There's just me and my swamp. And the first thing I'm gonna do is build a ten-foot wall around my land.

(He turns his back on Donkey)

Donkey: You cut me deep, Shrek. You cut me real deep just now.

(Donkey walks over to face Shrek)

Donkey: You know what I think? I think this whole wall thing is just a way to keep somebody out.

Shrek: No, do ya think?

(Shrek turns away again)

Donkey: Are you hidin' something?

Shrek: Never mind, Donkey.

(He lies on his back. Donkey leans over him)

Donkey: Oh, this is another one of those onion things, isn't it?

Shrek: No, this is one of those "drop it and leave it alone" things!

Donkey: Why don't you want to talk about it?

Shrek: Why do you want to talk about it? (turns)

Donkey: Why are you blocking?

Shrek: I'm not blocking! (turns)

Donkey: Oh, yes, you are.

Shrek: Donkey, I'm warning you...

Donkey: Who you trying to keep out?

(Shrek gets on his feet and faces Donkey)

Shrek: (Shouting at Donkey) EVERYONE! OKAY?!

Donkey: Oh, now we're getting somewhere.

(Unseen by either of them, Fiona was peeking around the cave door, eavesdropping on the conversation)

Shrek: Oh! For the love of Pete!

(Shrek walks over to the edge of the cliff and sits down)

Donkey: Hey what's your problem Shrek? What you got against the whole world anyway, huh?

Shrek: Look, I'm not the one with the problem, okay? It's the world that seems to have a problem with me! People take one look at me and go "Aah! Help! Run! A big, stupid, ugly ogre!" (depressed) They judge me before they even know me. That's why I'm better off alone.

(Hidden in the shadows of the cave, Fiona's eyes were sympathetic. She closes the door. Donkey stares silently at Shrek for a moment and then sits down beside him)

Donkey: You know what? When we met, I didn't think you was just a big, stupid, ugly ogre.

Shrek: Yeah, I know.

Donkey: So, uh, are there any donkeys up there?

Shrek: Well, there's, um, Gabby...the Small...and Annoying.

Donkey: Okay, okay, I see it now. The big shiny one, right there. That one there?

Shrek: That's the moon.

Donkey: Oh, okay.